Tight security and integrated forensic investigation tools are provided by CAINE (Computer Aided Investigative Environment). In order to provide a user-friendly graphical user interface and connect current software tools as software modules, CAINE is created around a comprehensive investigative environment. Nanni Bassetti (Bari, Italy) is the project manager for CAINE Linux at the moment.

All of the forensic instruments needed to carry out digital forensic investigative processes like preservation, collection, inspection, and analysis are made available by its operating environment.
It offers an intuitive graphical user interface and intuitive forensic tools.
It can be started from an optical disc or from external storage like flash drives and executed in memory.
On a physical or virtual system, it is simply installed.
Without launching the operating system, CAINE can access data storage objects in LIVE mode.

CAINE is an open source ME platform  used in forensics. The application integrates  high-level scripts into the GUI

CAINE Linux provides a variety of software tools that you can use for storage, databases, networks, and forensic analysis.  File image system analysis of file systems such as FAT / ExFAT, NTFS, Ext2, Ext3, HFS,  ISO 9660 is possible in both command line mode and graphical user interface mode. CAINE Linux also supports disk imaging in raw (dd) and Expert Witness / Advanced file formats. Disk images can be obtained using CAINE's built-in tools  or using third-party tools such as EnCase and the Forensic Toolkit.

List of several tools  included in CAINE Linux

Autopsy:Autopsy is simply SleuthKit's graphical user interface.

The Sleuth Kit:This is an open source command line tool that supports  file system and disk forensic inspection.

Wireshark: This is a digital forensic tool that supports non-real-time analysis of captured data packets (* .pcap) and interactive capture of network traffic. 
PhotoRec: This tool supports recovery of lost files from hard drives, optical media and digital cameras.
Fsstat: This tool displays statistical file system  information about images or storage objects.
RegRipper: This is an open source tool  written in Perl that extracts / analyzes information such as keys, values, dates, etc. from the registry for data analysis.
Tinfoleak: This is an open source tool for collecting detailed Twitter intelligence analysis



